## Lab 4: Answers to Expand

**Question 1:**  
1. Because of Javascript's asynchronous nature, it can be harder to follow how the code runs and so debugging the program could result in a bit of a pain for the programmer.
2. Loose typing could result in variables producing unpredictable responses, so there is the possibility that it isn't truly known what the program is going to output at any given point in time.
3. The web platform Javascript runs on could easily be incompatible with the methods which Javascript requires in order to properly synchronize with HTML. In my opinion, there are just many elements which have to be taken into consideration where the web platform comes into play, so there's a lot of thought and errors on the side of the developer if their code isn't performing well on the specific platform.

**Question 2:**  
I think that the developers who created Javascript made it loosely typed because it might've just been used as a method to enhance HTML back when it was first developed. There might not have been any real experimentation into making the program capable of truly operating without an HTML element, so there was no reason to have really strict limitations on objects or variable definition. I think they added asynchronous features to speed up the runtime of the website as if the file had to run line by line, then there'd be a lot of drawbacks in terms of how long each feature of the website would take to load.

**Question 3:**  
The key differences between a compiled language and an interpreted one are that a compiled language can be converted into machine code while an interpreted one runs its instructions without that translation into machine code. I think that Javascript is an interpretive language because its used as an additional element to HTML. So the benefits of it being made as an interpretive language is that it has a quick iteration and it works well within web spaces. A drawback would be that the runtime errors would be discovered during the actual execution of the code rather than during the compiling stage (since Javascript doesn't have a compiling stage within its code.)

**Question 4:**  
I think that its really necessary to learn vanilla Javascript because if we were just thrown into the deepend of the language then it would be very easy to get lost in it. Even in these labs and assignments - with the vanilla version of the program - it's easy to get lost in the different syntax and functions of the program. So, with something that is quite powerful one needs to learn the basics of the language so that when we get the opportunity to work with the higher level uses of JS, then we won't get lost in the "fancier aspects." The drawbacks of not learning the framework would be that you cause yourself and your team a lot more heartache than needed. If you're operating blind, then you're going to be spending a lot of time learning the different aspects of the language - which means you'll be "debugging" or testing perfectly fine code just to make sure you don't mess anything up with any unnecessary commands. And if you're really gutsy and decide to cannonball into the code, you'll just end up breaking it when it worked perfectly fine before.

**Question 5:**  
I think this lab is about teaching both the limitations of Javascript and also to help us understand the basic elements of the programming language. It let us troubleshoot any issues that we'd had during the lab in a risk-free environment and under a situation where we can take time to truly learn what's being brought to our attention. If this lab didn't exist, I know for sure that I'd end up struggling a lot more than I needed to just because I wasn't as familiarized with Javascript. Going forward with the project, I have a better understanding of my limitations with Javascript but also the possibilities that Javascript can bring to the website/app that we decide to produce. So it's another tool to use, though sparingly because I am not an expert in the language just yet.
